---
layout: default
title: Photovoltaic Workflows
parent: Workflows
nav_order: 2
---

# Solar Photovoltaics Workflows

As of version 0.6.3, URBANopt&trade; supports community photovoltaic and ground mount photovoltaic workflows in addition to the rooftop photovoltaic workflow supported by previous versions. 

## Community Photovoltaics

Community Photovoltaic features can be added to the GeoJSON Feature File as a district system of type "Community Photovoltaic".  View the [district system schema](https://docs.urbanopt.net/urbanopt-geojson-gem/schemas/district-system-properties.html) for more details. The REopt&trade; scenario optimization post-processor will use this information in its PV capacity calculations when run with the multi-PV assumptions file. This file is automatically generated when creating a PV-enabled project as mentioned in the [example project](#example-project) section below. PV generation results can be found in the `scenario_optimization` output files in the scenario directory.

## Ground Mount Photovoltaics

Ground Mount Photovoltaic features can also be added to the GeoJSON Feature File as a district system feature of type "Ground Mount Photovoltaic". A ground mount PV feature should have an `associated_building_id` element specified, with the ID of a building feature in the Feature File. View the [district system schema](https://docs.urbanopt.net/urbanopt-geojson-gem/schemas/district-system-properties.html) for more details. The REopt optimization post-processors will use this information in their PV capacity calculations. A `gcr` field representing the ground coverage ratio, or the percentage of the area given by the ground mount feature that will be covered by PV, can be found in the REopt assumptions file, and is defaulted to 1.

## Rooftop Photovoltaics

Rooftop photovoltaics can be optimized through the REopt post-processors. The default base assumptions and multi-PV assumptions files can be used for the feature optimization and scenario optimization post-processors. A `gcr` field representing the ground coverage ratio, or the percentage of the building's available roof area that will be covered by PV, can be specified in the REopt assumptions file, and is defaulted to 1. The building's available roof area is automatically calculated by the default URBANopt post-processor. Ground Mount and Rooftop photovoltaics can be explored simultaneously by using the multi-PV assumptions file.

## Example Project

Use the following CLI command to create a PV-enabled example project:

```bash
uo create --project-folder <path/to/PROJECT_DIRECTORY_NAME> --photovoltaic
```

Visit the [Getting Started](./getting_started/getting_started) page for more information on creating and running an example PV project.